>>WENDIE COLTER: The
root causes in the way
the medical world
talks about them
and root causes the
way an intuitive would
talk about them are really
two different things.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Yes, because, I
mean, as the standard medical
model goes, one size fits all.
>>COLTER: It's not unusual
for medical intuitives
to be ahead of the
curve, when it comes
to issues that the medical
world still doesn't quite
have a handle on.
The challenge
there for people is
that there are zillion choices.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COLTER: So what can
medical intuition do?
Well, we can help narrow
down those choices.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
the mind emotional interface
with that information.
>>COLTER: I could literally
see, in my mind's eye,
into their physical body,
into their physiology
into what was going on there.
And I could also
see the roots of it.
In other words, where it might
have begun for them emotionally
or in their life story.
And I wanted to know, whether or
not, if that information would
help them heal.
This is the key to
medical intuition,
the way I practice it.
I want people to hear what it is
their body wants to tell them,
their energy field.
What's going on
that led to this.
>>REGINA: With all that humanity
has been through the past few
years, there's never been
a bigger gap in trust
in the medical
systems of the world--
misdiagnosis, unnecessary
treatments, doctor error--
1/3 of deaths in America.
All of which creates a loss
of faith in the system.
So we turn to alternatives,
such as medical intuitives
and healers.
Wendie Colter is spearheading
mainstream acceptance
of medical intuition and
is here with us today.
Welcome, Wendy.
Good to see you.
>>COLTER: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: I so
respect what you do,
and I so respect that you are
taking it way further, not just
as an individual,
but you're really
looking to help integrate
medical intuition
into the medical system,
which is a huge leap.
First of all, let me
ask you a quick question
before we get into your
background and the story.
Is there any-- are
there any countries
in the world in which
medical intuitives and energy
healers have been
incorporated directly
into the medical institutions?
>>COLTER: That's
a great question.
I can tell you that
in Australia, there
have been some reports that
they're integrating Indigenous
healers into the medical
system, which is wonderful.
>>REGINA: That's fabulous.
>>COLTER: And I know
in other countries,
there is more of an
acceptance for this,
kind of, culturally
more of an acceptance
than there is in the US.
>>REGINA: Well, and I
remember, even from the '80s
and forward, I think
it's always been
used in the most elite circles.
Certainly, in many
of the higher-ups
of governments and
monarchies and such,
they've used alternatives.
But I know in Russia,
for decades, they've
used very, very advanced
esoteric healing techniques
on their leaders, for example,
you know, in the oligarchy.
>>COLTER: Russia and
the Eastern bloc, these
are culturally-accepting
areas where
intuitive healers or medical
intuitives have more of-- they
play more of a part
in health care.
>>REGINA: Yes, more holistic
thinking from their roots.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Kind of
agrarian roots.
So, OK.
First of all, let's get into
and your own background.
Originally, as an energy
healer and how you segued over
into medical intuitive work.
>>COLTER: Well, as
an energy healer
I started noticing
that, sometimes, clients
would be able to let go of
something in their energy field
and have a wonderful
healing experience.
And sometimes, they couldn't.
It was difficult for them.
And I was so curious, Regina,
as to why some people could heal
and some were having
trouble with it.
And I noticed in my practice
that I could literally
see, in my mind's eye,
into their physical body,
into their physiology, into
what was going on there.
That was just a
talent I cultivated
over years of visual intuition.
And I could also
see the roots of it.
In other words, where it might
have begun for them emotionally
or in their life story.
So that became a real
curiosity for me.
And I wanted to
know whether or not
if that information
would help them heal.
>>REGINA: Yes, because, I mean,
as the standard medical model
goes, one size fits all.
There's a drug rep--
>>COLTER: Right.
>>REGINA: --who
says, in the hospital
does it deal with
them, and this is
the drug you use for
everyone with this condition,
a lot of times.
I mean, that is how it
works, and that is so wrong.
>>COLTER: Well--
>>REGINA: As individuals.
It doesn't mean it
can't work, but we have
to go far deeper than that.
And that's what
you're talking about.
Because, now, you're
talking about going
to underlying causes, right?
>>COLTER: Well, the
root causes in the way
the medical world talks about
them and root causes the way
an intuitive would talk
about them are really
two different things.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COLTER: And one is not just
the physical roots, which
is really where medicine stops,
but also the emotional, mental,
spiritual roots.
What happened in someone's life?
How did this manifest
into a health issue?
And that's really
one of the tenets
that I teach about
medical intuition,
that every physical
manifestation also
has emotional, mental,
and spiritual roots.
There's something going on.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, we'll do this
as a simple example.
So if you're going into
a medical appointment.
And now, you have some problem
with your lungs-- emphysema.
You have a history of smoking.
It's like, the root
cause, you're a smoker.
But if you let go beneath that--
and I remember playing
with this a little bit.
I had a little years--
many years ago, I had a
little hypnotherapy clinic.
I went through my little
six-month training course,
and I just happened to
have a natural skill at it,
so I could work
with people easily.
But nonetheless, one
of the things people
came for was smoking.
But I remember
that the person who
taught us who was
highly skilled, and they
were third generation.
They said, no,
you got to go back
to the emotional state they
were in the day they started
smoking.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And when
I did that, I just
found it incredible, where
you have someone who'd
gotten a fight
with their parents,
and they were being defiant
and thought, heck with you,
and went out with their friends
and started smoking just
to show them.
And then, you get whatever comes
down 30, 40, 50 years later.
>>COLTER: Well, there's so
much research on this now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLTER: And when the research
started being published some
years ago from the--
I think it's the CDC.
They did years of
research, and they came up
with something called adverse
childhood experiences,
meaning ACEs, which means
early life trauma leading
to later life health issues.
And every medical
intuitive that I ever knew,
and myself included,
looked at that and went,
well, thank goodness.
Finally, there's scientific data
that shows exactly what we've
been seeing all these years.
>>REGINA: So where is this ACEs
actually being applied, though?
>>COLTER: It's being applied
in mostly psychology,
psychotherapy,
psychoneuroimmunology,
which is a new field.
>>REGINA: That's a new field.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you work
together as well, yeah.
>>COLTER: Yes.
Yeah, so it's new
science essentially,
and I don't think the
medical world is quite
embraced it because I'm not sure
they know what to do with that.
And this is kind of where
medical intuition fills
that gap, to be totally honest.
>>REGINA: So let's look at that.
So someone comes in, ACEs,
you see childhood trauma,
but you're working with a
doctor under a medical plan.
Your insurance
covers the doctor,
doesn't cover you
and the others.
>>COLTER: No.
>>REGINA: How do
we begin working
that as, say, the
parents of someone
or for our own
bodies, for example.
>>COLTER: Well, there's a
lot we can do on our own,
and that's also something
that I'm interested in.
I do teach that.
How do people,
any average person
begin that conversation
with your own body?
That's never-- I
mean, who knows--
where have you ever
heard that other
than the mind body world,
which is wonderful.
But I like to teach people
how to use this intuitive
skill for their own bodies.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, and you teach that.
We're going to get into that
toward the end of the show.
So one of the things
you talk about is--
OK, first of all, we
didn't get to where
you segued into doing
full-time medical intuition.
So let's hear that
part of your story.
>>COLTER: Sure.
Absolutely.
So as I noticed, as I gave
my clients the information--
before I did any kind of
healing work with them,
I would look at their physical
body, and their physiology
and their energy field as
well, and I would give them
the information that
was apparent to me
that had to do with
their imbalance, whatever
was going on.
I found that they found that
information was so valuable.
What happened for
them-- and I'll give you
a magic word that I use.
Their permission
level-- and that's
an energetic marking, right?
The permission level
started to raise.
And permission for what?
Permission for healing, right?
And when I did an energy
work after the session,
boy, they were able to let go
of things that, probably, they
couldn't have for a while.
They might have said--
>>REGINA: Probably
didn't even know existed.
>>COLTER: Didn't
even know existed.
This is the key to
medical intuition the way
I practice it.
I want people to hear what it is
their body wants to tell them,
their energy field.
What's going on
that led to this.
And that I found
over the years is
I found it even more
valuable than energy healing
because it was the
precursor to healing.
Does that make sense?
>>REGINA: Yes, it does.
So this requires a high
degree of responsibility
and you say even a
different kind of ethics
than in the medical industry.
Maybe explain what
you mean by that.
>>COLTER: Well, I guess I'm
talking about both legal ethics
and spiritual ethics.
Legal ethics are what
is my scope of practice
as a medical intuitive.
I don't diagnose.
I don't have that license.
You have to know what
your scope of practice
is legally, wherever-- what
state you're in or what country
or whatever.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COLTER: Spiritually, we
also don't want to overstep.
We want to make sure
that the client is
OK with the information
that they want to hear it.
So I check in with
people and make sure--
especially if I see
something pretty
gritty from their history, I'm
going to make sure they're OK.
And that's part of ethical
training that I don't think
gets taught a lot in the
energy healing world.
A lot of people, particularly
intuitives, if they get a hit,
they'll blurt it right out,
and that's a little dangerous.
>>REGINA: It can be.
I mean, for example,
if you have someone
whose psyche is fragile, and
they've just seen something,
as you say, gritty,
something serious,
something need
serious attention.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
the mind-emotional interface
with that information.
And at what point are you--
I mean, I know it's
highly individual.
You can see one person
who's like, give it to me.
I can take it.
And they can.
They'll say, OK, let's fix it.
Where another person might
be emotionally overwhelmed
and devastated by what you said.
And actually, the
knowledge is almost
working counter to the healing.
Can you talk about
that complex a bit?
>>COLTER: Yeah, that's
a very deep question.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLTER: I always-- this
is a joke I make, OK?
I say, you can't hide
from a psychic, OK?
>>REGINA: Right, don't bother.
>>COLTER: Because we're going
to see what there is to see.
But there is something
about the process
that I use that I make sure
that what I'm looking at
can be said.
Number one, that's an intuitive
connection with higher self,
with this process that I use.
And I always let my client
know, if I say something
or see something that is really
too much for you, stop me.
Very often, what I see
in people's energies
is the need for more assistance.
In fact, that's a huge part of
the medical intuitive process.
>>REGINA: What do you mean by
the need for more assistance?
>>COLTER: Helping people
get the help they need.
In other words, my
process is informational.
It's not a healing process.
It can be healing for
someone to hear something,
but it's not actually
working on their energy.
So that information is what
they can take and get more help.
And sometimes, it's
emotional help.
Sometimes, it's medical help.
Sometimes, it's--
>>REGINA: Would you recommend
that if you see someone,
for example, that's in the
state I'm talking about,
where you see--
I see there was some
trauma and pain that
happened some time ago.
And it might be playing
out in your body.
You might want to
work with someone
to work through
some of this trauma,
and you almost set
it up that way.
>>COLTER: Well, pretty
much like that, yeah.
If that's what the
energy is asking for.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
Yeah.
So it goes across the
board, right down to, go
get that thing fixed.
>>COLTER: Well, I can't lay down
the law the way a doctor can,
but I can certainly
make suggestions
based on their energy field and
their higher self-information
and what is being asked for.
The key here is, what is the
body and biofield asking for?
Because if we had that open line
of communication between mind
and body on our own, we would
need a medical intuitive,
right?
We just do it.
But what happens is that the
body has its own consciousness.
The cells in our body have their
own awareness and the organs.
So they're talking
to us all the time,
but it would be overwhelming
if we listen to all the time.
So we need to--
that is why people come
to medical intuitives
because they want
that information.
And I'll go even further
with this, Regina.
When the body is feeling--
when it's impacted in some way,
the body has a fear response.
It gets afraid.
>>REGINA: Is it
because it's created
the condition on some level to
reinforce or protect itself?
That's a really
good observation.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
I mean, it's case-by-case, in
my world, but sure, possibly.
And there could be
a million reasons,
to be honest, why
something would manifest.
Just a million.
It might be protection.
It might be genetic.
It might be all kinds of things.
>>REGINA: Well, speaking
on the subject of all kinds
of things--
and you don't have to go
here if you don't want to--
but in some work that's been
written about this, sometimes,
it's not even--
sometimes it's ancestral.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: We've carried the
patterns of our ancestors.
Sometimes, it's almost
interference from the outside,
from deceased, and so
forth that might still
be kind of clinging and trying
to work through us in some way.
Have you ever noticed
that in your work,
where it seems that something
outside of the person
is draining or
affecting that person?
>>COLTER: Well, I
think every intuitive
has that understanding.
However, my perspective on it
is that what drains our energy,
there's a permission
level for it,
meaning there has
to be something
within our own mind-heart-spirit
psyche that allows for that.
And that's the big thing to say.
And I don't want it
taken the wrong way.
But as--
>>REGINA: No, this is a
very intelligent audience.
I think we all understand
what you're saying.
Subconsciously, we may be
allowing ourselves to almost
be victimized.
In some cases, have
our energy taken.
We haven't become clear
enough to say, I do this.
I give my energy away
ridiculously freely at times,
not even thinking about
the repercussions.
But there are repercussions.
And so, maybe you
can educate us now
to help us understand
how do we best set
those boundaries for ourselves.
>>COLTER: Well, you're
talking about what
I call energy hygiene, which
is something that isn't really
well known.
And I wish it was
more well-known.
I've read about it in
my book, and I teach it.
And the whole point there is,
to keep ourselves grounded,
shielded, you could say,
protected energetically
in our own energy and our power.
And that helps us
navigate the waters
of the world, where there's
just-- we talk about energy.
It's just bouncing around
all over the place,
and especially in
these times, where
we see so much polarization
and intense energy.
It's really, really important.
>>REGINA: It is.
I mean, we're bathed in
a field of thought forms.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Our reality is
nothing but thought forms.
We're sitting in them.
They're all around us.
They're coming out
of us and into us.
And so, you call it
energy hygiene, right?
>>COLTER: I do, yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And that is in the book,
and I read about that.
But I just wanted
to get that out.
Let's talk about
an area that I find
really interesting, which is--
and I talked about it in
the opening of the show--
often misdiagnosis or things
that can't be diagnosed easily.
There are some kind of--
I think they call them
garbage bucket diagnoses,
where it's just a set
of random symptoms.
You just call it
something because we
don't know what to do with it.
So that, together with
people who can't really
speak for themselves, let's
talk about this whole area
for a moment.
>>COLTER: Well, undiagnosed or
difficult to diagnose issues
are the meat and potatoes
of medical intuition,
not only from the medical side,
for the doctors who work with
medical intuitives-- and I've
worked with many doctors over
the years--
but for the patients themselves,
the clients themselves.
They feel kicked around
by the medical industry
because there's no place for
them to get the help they need.
And some really good examples
of this over the years
were Lyme disease before
it was understood,
what's called SIBO,
small intestinal bowel
bacterial overgrowth.
I was seeing that 15 to 20
years ago in people's guts.
There's a proliferation
of bad bacteria,
and they didn't-- what
did they do about it?
Their gastroenterologist
didn't even recognize it.
So it's not unusual
for medical intuitives
to be ahead of the
curve, when it comes
to issues that the medical
world still doesn't quite
have a handle on.
>>REGINA: Once
you tell them, I'm
seeing this bacterial
overgrowth or whatnot,
and there's no real means
of dealing with that,
there must be some
through analysis,
if you can get the doctor
to authorize the tests.
I mean, again, all
these are scheduled
things and a matter of need,
and expense, and so forth.
>>COLTER: Oh, don't
get me started there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLTER: The medical world
is-- and the physicians
that I work with that I
train, they all get it.
The nurses, they all get it.
They know the system
is broken, but you
have to start somewhere.
I can tell you that in
my work, I refer people
to what would typically
be called alternative
or integrative fields.
Because naturopathic
medicine, Chinese medicine,
Ayurvedic medicine,
chiropractic,
so many fields have
so many great ways
to help heal various
things and can really
get to the prescriptions
or whatever that will help.
The key there and the
challenge there for
people is that there
are zillion choices.
So what can medical
intuition do?
Well, we can help narrow
down those choices,
and that's one way I've
worked with doctors
in terms of the testing
that they might suggest.
I can help narrow those
choices, and medical intuitive
should be able to do that.
And for our clients,
we can help hone where
the best path forward might be.
>>REGINA: Is there an
increase right now in doctors
becoming naturopathic doctors
and also functional medicine?
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: I would
think this would really
with the young people coming
into medicine would be really
on the rise, right?
>>COLTER: Integrative
medicine, functional medicine,
and all the things that
integrate with those two
fields, that means conventional
medicine integrating, quote,
"alternative practices,"
or complementary, I think,
is the word now.
>>REGINA: Right.
And you see, because,
obviously, most med students
are the youngs.
They're young.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Do you
find that they're
a little more open
to all of this
than their parents' generation?
>>COLTER: Well, I've
had the privilege
of teaching at the
Andrew Weil Center
at their program for fourth
year medical students,
and they have just loved
this because it makes sense
to them, right?
The understanding and
awareness of something
beyond the physical body that
influences the physical body,
that's not new science.
That's old science.
>>REGINA: That's
way old science.
Yes, thank goodness,
it's been resurrected.
So I asked it a little
bit ago, and we'll
go back into this now.
What about people who
can't speak for themselves
or where a baby's in
distress, and they don't
have the means to diagnose it?
And other vulnerable groups
that can't speak for themselves.
Let's talk about this.
>>COLTER: You really have
the nail on the head.
That is such a potent
piece of the puzzle.
I can tell you a little
story from my own cases.
I had a wonderful client, who
had had an injury when they
were an infant that was
never diagnosed properly,
and it wasn't until
they were a teenager,
and they couldn't get out of it.
It was a back injury that nobody
could find or even acknowledge.
And this gentleman, by the
time he came to see me,
what was caught in
his back was not only
the injury which finally
was diagnosed correctly,
and he had surgery
after surgery, but all
of this anger and frustration
that he was shushed
and not listened
to when he was--
>>REGINA: With all the pain.
>>COLTER: Exactly.
He was in pain from the time
he was a little tiny baby.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>COLTER: And so,
this is, honestly,
not that unusual, sadly,
in terms of people
being heard correctly.
So you're asking about babies,
and I've done work with babies.
I've done work with people
who are with their family
members who want to-- people who
are in dementia or in, somehow,
out of commission, and
that's a great place
to use medical intuition.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I love that.
And the whole notion of if you
can articulate for yourself,
still not being heard.
>>COLTER: Yeah,
well, that's rampant.
>>REGINA: And that,
to me, is probably
the biggest frustration is
someone who meets me and has
known me for seven minutes,
telling me what's going on,
when they have no idea.
It's just that they
a general theme that
happens among humanity.
And I know that's not
how doctors choose
to operate for the most part.
They're being held in that
pattern by the system itself.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
That's the biggest one.
I interviewed a lot of
doctors for the book
because I wanted to find
out what they think,
and that's everything they said.
They have 20 minutes or
15 minutes with a patient.
There's no time to get
this deeper history.
There's no time to
really understand.
Now, they might see
patients over the years
and have an understanding
of their life,
but what about what's
under the surface?
What about when the patient
doesn't articulate because it's
a little mysterious to them, or
they are not even aware of it.
This is really where
medical intuition can
fill these holes absolutely.
>>REGINA: And we're going to
get into a study you did that I
loved that was in the book.
But ultimately, you
have begun, as you
said, teaching through
various medical institutions,
being a guest lecturer,
and where are you finding--
where are you finding the
biggest resonance and uptake,
and where are you finding
the greatest resistance?
>>COLTER: Oh, gosh, it's
such a good question.
Well, nurses were the first
to embrace because they've
been using intuition in their
own and work for decades,
and they've also
written about it.
And they've also done
over 30 years of research
on nursing intuition, so they
validated that whole concept
of intuition.
And I'm so grateful to them.
So nurses are a big part of
who come to learn from me.
But I will say that over
the past five years,
more and more physicians, MDs,
DOs, people in the health care
field, like PAs, physician
assistants, certainly,
massage therapists and
health coaches even,
are drawn to this
because of the value
that it can bring to their
patients and clients.
It's certainly mental
health care as well.
There's just really--
Regina, I talk about the
skill as a foundational skill.
It's not a modality.
You can learn a
zillion modalities.
This is not that.
This supports all
of those modalities.
>>REGINA: No, absolutely.
I mean, it should be the
foundational partnership
that happens here
is for someone to be
able to look in the entire being
and someone on the other end
to use the very best of
technology that's available
today.
I mean, that would be a
perfect working partnership.
So you have developed some of
those working partnerships,
right?
>>COLTER: I have.
I worked with some
doctors and I've
been doing that for 20
years-- over 20 years.
And I work directly
with their-- sometimes
they'll refer me
to their patients,
and I do that, a lot of that,
which is really interesting.
And we want to see more of that.
We want collaborations between
doctors and medical intuitives.
I will tell you a
little story if I can.
>>REGINA: Please.
>>COLTER: One of the
wonderful doctors
I interviewed for the book,
who has this breakthrough
model, where she works directly
with her medical intuitive,
a wonderful gentleman, and she's
an integrative family medicine
doctor in New York.
She and her medical
intuitive and her patient
sit together in the
exam room, and they
have this wonderful dialogue.
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
>>COLTER: I mean, it is
the future of health care--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLTER: --as I could
see it and, certainly,
the way I would like to see
medical intuition utilized.
>>REGINA: I love that.
When you're talking, it was
reminding me of someone I met,
probably 15, 20 years ago now.
Trying to say-- yeah, I
probably interviewed him
18 years ago or so.
A fellow named Jay Caliendo,
who you have in your book.
>>COLTER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I had the
experience of, actually,
in a Starbucks, inadvertently
having him do a reading on me--
you feel stripped naked a bit.
And it's like, what,
we're in Starbucks.
We're just talking business.
And he said, no, you
don't know what I do.
Let's do this right now.
And I'm like this.
And it was a little
disconcerting, initially,
because you see this person
looking through you, not
at you, but through
you and scanning.
And I didn't tell him anything.
And the thing he found was so
profound and profoundly weird.
And I thought, it
is profoundly weird.
And he saw it right off the bat.
And he said, I don't know
what to tell you about it.
I mean, good luck.
Let me know if
you figure it out.
But the point is, it
only took him just really
seconds to dial in and see
the unique aspect of my being,
for example, right to
the core part of it.
And so, you write about
him in his book, your book,
too, because he actually
worked with the Mayo Clinic,
and he was a police officer
who had this ability, right?
And they would have downed
and injured police officers,
and he would say, yeah,
what I'm seeing here--
and they did work together
with the medical industry,
including the Mayo
Clinic, right?
>>COLTER: There was
a wonderful write up
and a medical journal about
his work with the doctor.
They did this whole
interview with the doctor
and with him about his process
and how they work together.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what I loved about it.
>>COLTER: It's so fascinating.
And this was, I don't
know, decades ago,
a couple of decades ago.
It's like, why hasn't
that taken all--
>>REGINA: Yeah, why haven't we
gotten any further than this?
>>COLTER: Yeah, that's my goal.
>>REGINA: So you
have to prove it.
You have to also
create something,
if not standardized, at
least, a place where people
can have be somewhat
credentialed
so that the medical industry
can start trusting that there's
someone valid to go to.
So let's talk about studies and
including the external studies
and the one you did
with the 67 people.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
The challenge with
medical intuition,
just like the challenge
with all energy-based skills
is research and validation,
and we need more of that.
When I looked at the research
on medical intuition,
there was very little other
than Dr. Norm Shealy tested
Carolyn Mace, and he wrote some
journal articles about that.
Dr. Daniel Bonner did
some articles about it.
He's done his own research.
He's no longer with
us, unfortunately.
But there have been little
bits and pieces over the years,
and they've been
problematic studies
in that they've been small.
The study designs
have been challenging
because what are we measuring?
We're measuring intuition.
How do you measure that?
And so, when I looked
at that, I realized
that I'd been teaching
for quite a while
that my students are
heading their marks.
We're getting incredible
practicum information,
and they have to do a lot
of hours in my program.
And we document everything.
And we're seeing just
the accuracy levels,
which were just phenomenal.
I thought, well, there's
got to be a way to has this.
So I worked with some
colleagues at UCSD,
including Dr. Paul Mills, who
I think has been on your show.
>>REGINA: Paul Mills is
married to Tiffany Burstein--
>>COLTER: Married to Tiffany
Burstein, who's a colleague.
>>REGINA: --wrote his own book.
I interviewed him recently.
>>COLTER: Yes, he's wonderful.
And the study was to
validate the accuracy
of medical intuition
in a qualitative way
because we didn't have access
to all of the medical records.
So we did what we could.
And so, what we did was, we had
67 participants, some of whom
were patients at UCSD Medical.
We had five of my
graduate students,
and we set up as blinded
a study as we could.
The intuitives did about a
half an hour, an hour session,
with each of the participants.
We have our eyes closed.
We don't look at you, so
we don't have visual cues.
The participants didn't
tell us anything.
And afterwards, they
filled out a survey.
And from that
survey, we found out
how accurate they felt
the medical intuitive was.
And this is just an
exploratory way to find out.
>>REGINA: So the medical
intuitive was talking to them
and sharing with them what
they had seen, what they
were seeing as they went along.
>>COLTER: Exactly.
It was one-on-one
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLTER: Sometimes, it was over
the internet or over the phone.
But there's no conversation
in this process.
It's very much, we're just
going to tell you what we see.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COLTER: So that was
the premise of it.
And at the end, we
read all the surveys,
and we tallied it all up.
We worked with the
statistician, and we came out
with some really
wonderful numbers.
We found that the participants
rated the medical intuitives
as 94% accurate in locating and
evaluating their primary health
issue, which is really
such a great number.
>>REGINA: That's huge.
>>COLTER: It's huge.
We also found that they
rated the medical intuitives
as 98% accurate in describing
life experience that
related to their health issue.
Now, that is wonderful.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COLTER: That is wonderful.
>>REGINA: These are
extraordinary numbers.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
There's more.
The other one I'll
pull out here is
the one that made all
the doctors ears perk up,
and that was, we
asked the participants
if they'd had a known
diagnosis, if they they'd had
a diagnosis from their doctors.
We didn't ask what it was.
We just asked, do you have one?
About half, 49%, said,
yes, we have one.
And of that 49%, we
said, how consistent
was the medical intuitive
with how they described what
they saw with that diagnosis?
94% accuracy or
consistency with that
known diagnosis, and
that is a missing--
that's like the
missing piece, right?
The missing link.
And with all of
the information, we
were able to get the survey--
excuse me-- the study published
in the "Journal of Integrative
and Complementary Medicine."
>>REGINA: And that's a big deal.
>>COLTER: Oh, it's enormous
deal because this work is not
very well acknowledged.
And I will tell you, that
it's the first study published
in over 20 years
on this subject.
With the size of cohort
we had, with the results
we came out with,
we're so proud of it.
>>REGINA: So once that
was published-- how
long ago was that published?
>>COLTER: 2020.
>>REGINA: 2020.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So since the
publication of that,
has there been any kind
of movement of the needle?
>>COLTER: Well, yes and no.
These kinds of studies,
they need funding,
to be totally frank about it.
And funding can be a
little challenging,
when you're talking about
something that isn't really
well known.
I mean, Reiki,
and healing touch,
and some of these
wonderful modalities
are more known now,
even in hospitals.
So there's more awareness
and, therefore, more funding.
But when it comes to
medical intuition,
it's still an unknown field.
And because of that,
I'm out there every day,
working to raise awareness--
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes, you are.
>>COLTER: --and get some funding
for this because we feel--
let me back up.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COLTER: In all
the studies I read
over the years, that really
start back in the early--
like, the early 70s.
Every study, even if
it was inconclusive,
we found that all of the
doctors and researchers
said in their
discussion part, which
is at the end, where they
say, they give their opinions
about this field of this work.
If this could be taught, if
this could be studied more,
if this could be validated,
this would change
the paradigm of medicine.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>COLTER: And I'm right
there with that, obviously.
So we need more brave
people to step forward.
>>REGINA: We do.
And funding, where it
can really be useful.
So now, let's go to
the personal part
because people are listening
to this and thinking, gosh,
that's something
I'd like to learn.
That might be
something I want to do.
So let's talk about
innate capacities.
There are some people who
are, certainly, just more open
and can access this a little
more easily than other people.
So if you have an array of
people out there, saying,
this is cool.
This is the future.
I want to do this.
So what would you
look for in yourself?
>>COLTER: Well, here's
my philosophy on that.
Anybody can do this.
It's an innate skill.
Intuition is not for
some and not for others.
That's a false
notion in my world.
I've taught people who
are complete skeptics.
And boy, in the medical world,
they should be skeptics.
So I don't hold to that.
>>REGINA: So anyone
can be taught?
>>COLTER: Well, yeah, sure.
>>REGINA: So a lot
of times, you find
people who are
very like-- taking
in everything since childhood.
So let's talk about that class.
Because a lot of
people watching this--
we have a number of people
watching right now that
are in that class where
they see everything,
and they've been lost in
streams of data their whole life
and want to put it to use.
And then, we'll go to the
part, the segment of society
that doesn't see everything
but can be taught, OK?
>>COLTER: So people
who are wide open.
They got the moonroof open.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>COLTER: Very often,
those are the empaths,
the clear sentience.
They feel it.
They sense it.
They're overwhelmed.
They're bombarded, really.
And that's where energy
hygiene comes in.
It's like, you've got to learn
how to monitor and manage
your energy.
Otherwise, you're just
going to be tossed around
by this intuitive information.
So that's a skill set
that needs honing.
>>REGINA: So they
need to learn to have
a little more
boundaries, protection,
and so forth, if they're
going to go into this.
>>COLTER: Yes.
And again, I keep hearkening
back to what's in the book
and what I teach.
These are important
skills to learn
for anyone who is
highly intuitive
or feels that kind of sense
of bombardment or overload.
Critical.
And I know many of
your guests talk
about grounding, and shielding,
and monitoring, and managing,
but that's step one.
You've got to have that.
And that's a skill that,
actually, literally,
anyone can learn.
But for those who are highly
sensitive, it's a good idea.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's why I'm asking.
Because if they don't
do that, someone
who would seem like they'd be
the perfect medical intuitive
because they see
everything, what
happens if they don't
do that due diligence?
>>COLTER: Oh, well, you know,
I've been working in this field
now as a hobby and then as a
career for a long, long time.
And back in the
day, you saw a lot
of really unhealthy intuitives,
physically unhealthy.
>>REGINA: Taking everything
on, getting mixed up
in the emotions of the person.
>>COLTER: It can be
very detrimental.
So that's why, I really
emphasize the energy hygiene
part critical.
You've got to work
on yourself first.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, now, let's
talk about a person
who seems to be impermeable
to outside influences,
but who knows this is
necessary and totally
resonates with
what you're saying,
and they want to give it
a shot and be trained.
Now, they don't seem to be at
the whim of external energies.
>>COLTER: Well, we're
always at the window.
>>REGINA: We are, but they
don't appear to be, right?
OK, so let's talk about
a person more solid,
maybe coming in a
little skeptical,
but wants to give it a try.
>>COLTER: Well, you know,
what's interesting is
that the medical doctors that
are attracted to this, very
often, are both
skeptical and excited.
>>REGINA: Yeah, sure.
>>COLTER: And as you
should be, right?
And I welcome skepticism
because my philosophy
is, don't believe me.
Try it.
Practice.
And the more my
students practice,
the more they see their
accuracy rates rise.
And it's not about accuracy.
It's about intuitive
efficacy, you could say.
That's what I'm teaching, is
how to tune in and be aware of
and use the information
that you're receiving
and deliberately ask for
and receive and impart
that information
that's the practice.
So it's wonderful
to watch my students
that come in at all different
places in this continuum of,
I believe in it.
I don't believe in it.
I'm skeptical.
I do it anyway.
And learn how to
hone it and use it
as a highly developed
skill in their work.
So, yeah.
>>REGINA: And I mean,
I've interviewed
quite a few people that
have been in remote viewing
programs.
So there's no difference?
>>COLTER: Well, there's a
difference in the use of it,
and there's maybe a difference
in the way it's practiced.
>>REGINA: The way
it's practiced,
but the actual
function of it is to be
able to see beyond the
physical senses with accuracy.
>>COLTER: Sure.
Non-local consciousness.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
non-local consciousness.
And they have said, repeatedly,
starting with Russell Targ,
who I interviewed
first in the mid-'80s.
>>COLTER: He's amazing.
>>REGINA: He's amazing.
But he's talking about, a
lot of times, the people
they brought in had no
instinct for it whatsoever
and turned out to be
some of the best viewers
because they came in just clean,
clear, and they wanted proof.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
And that is a wonderful thing.
And so, I welcome skeptics.
And I have no problem
with it because they're
going to show themselves
what they can do.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So now, in our last
few minutes, let's
talk about what we can
do, and some techniques,
and how we begin ourselves,
working with our own bodies,
for example, and how we
start dialing in which--
we're coming full circle.
We've talked about
that in the beginning.
>>COLTER: Well, the way I
see it is, a lot of people
talk about meditation techniques
and quieting the mind.
I can't do that, Regina.
My mind is way too busy.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
not everybody can.
That's for sure.
Yeah.
>>COLTER: So I don't teach that.
What I teach is,
open the dialogue
and use your mind
as a visual tool
for visually reaching
into the body
and having discussion with
your liver, your kidneys,
your digestive system, right?
And these are wonderful
skills for everyone to use,
and anyone can
learn how to do it.
It takes a little
practice in getting
from where we are in
our conscious awareness
to where we want to be in that
intuitive internal awareness.
And there's some skills
involved with that,
some tools involved with that.
>>REGINA: I mean, you're
just starting like a dialogue
with your kidney.
>>COLTER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And then,
so, for you, you
think it's an imaginary--
if you're a skeptic,
you think it's an
imaginary conversation.
But you listen, and you
see what comes up, right?
>>COLTER: Exactly, yes.
We're simplifying it like crazy,
but that's essentially it.
Opening up that dialogue
takes a very important skill
that everyone has, and
that's your imagination.
>>REGINA: See?
And most people think the
imagination invalidates
everything, and
that is so not true
because what comes
into your imagination
is coming from somewhere.
>>COLTER: I call the imagination
the doorway to your intuition.
>>REGINA: Absolutely I love it.
Maybe just talk about
that for one second then
tell us about your classes
before we sign off here.
>>COLTER: Sure.
As children, we
imagine like crazy.
We have imaginary friends.
We play with-- we play house.
We play whatever.
And we have very, very active
and fertile imaginations.
There isn't one
child that I've ever
known that doesn't have that.
And that also speaks to
the fact that children
are highly intuitive.
And what happens
for most people is
intuition is not considered
a valid resource or--
>>REGINA: No.
>>COLTER: So they're shushed.
They're told, stop.
As you grow up, you're
shamed out of it, you know?
And what happens is, when
people become adults, either
they hide it, or they
go head first into it.
Or most people will hide
it and not talk about it.
In the medical field, that's
exactly what's happening.
When I give conferences
or I speak at conferences,
the medical doctors who
have used their intuition
successfully will come
up to me, and they
used to have little furtive
conversations about that.
So when you learn a field,
like some health care field,
you're using your left brain.
You're using your analytical
brain because you have to.
And accidents happen and
tragedies happen when you
don't.
The key to intuition
is it doesn't
have to do with your
analytical brain at all.
It has to do it.
You could say, right
brain or non-local.
That's not always
natural to people.
So the learning
curve, in my programs,
for those folks who come from
that left brain perspective
is to unlearn that to do this.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
And to me, it's such a tragedy
that in Western cultures
that imagination has
been denigrated, like,
just minimized, when this is the
most wonderful faculty humans
have is an imagination.
And as you say, it's
being fed from somewhere.
That information is flowing.
So thank you for
explaining that to us.
I love it.
And then, very quickly, how can
people get involved and take
classes and such?
>>COLTER: Well, I
offer two tracks.
The main track is for health
care professionals-- wellness
professionals, I should
say, from health coaches
to MDs and everything
in between.
And that is a one year program
they can find on my website.
The other part is for
everyone, and that
is the idea of energy
hygiene and learning
to open that communication.
That program is called
medical intuition
for healing and
self-care, and that's also
can be found on my website.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
Well, Wendie, I
want to thank you
for being here with us
and also because this
needs a lot of educating.
The public needs a
lot of tools to work
with to help educate
their doctors,
their family members, and so
forth as to the value of this.
So I very much
appreciate that you're
on the education trail on this.
>>COLTER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Yes, thank you.
I personally believe
this is a profession
whose time is long overdue.
To learn more about
Wendie's training courses,
you can go to the
practicalpath.com.
And again, her latest
book is "The Essentials
of Medical Intuition," found
at all major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."